hi I'm lassie and I'm back here where
the tips and tricks again and this time
we are back with the English wheel this
isn't an important thing to remember for
you when you're using your English wheel
at home and this is the same principle
so you can use that for many different
brands of English wheels long time ago
when we wheeled up a door skin like this
because that's what I'm going to talk to
to talk to you about we could wheel it
up this way and cross it this way and
sometimes it came out okay but I had a
feeling that it it could look better and
it must be another way to do it so many
times when I have a problem and I go to
sleep then I wake up in the middle of
the night and find out that oh there is
the answer so this happened even this
time so I'm going to explain if you're
wheeling it across like this in the
English wheel so you cross it both ways
like that but 90 degrees to each other
you can see how much overlap we have in
the center there between those two
tracks when we wheeling it in a diamond
shape and I turn it over like this to
diamond shape can you see there how much
we increase that area so that means that
when we wheeling up a door skin like
this in a diamond shape the it's the
same amount of wheeling to cover the
whole area but the overlap is more so we
can get it up faster and we can make it
better quality too so if you have a big
panel like this as the door skin one
thing to remember for you is that you
need to be two people to hold the panel
like this you can't do a panel like this
by yourself because the gravity going to
hang down one side and the doors can go
our roof skin going to take a totally
different shape that you want so and
when you're wheeling this by two people
it's important that if one person
holding the hands wide like this
it's important that the other person
holding his hand the same symmetrical to
this side if one person holding it like
this
and the other person in this side
holding it tight like this those sides
going to hang down because of the
gravity and the panel are going to take
a different shape that you want so when
you have a flat piece and you're going
to wheel it I put some help lines like
this
so those three lines is just help lines
and then I cross it the other way in a
diamond shape so we have six lines that
help us to keep those lines parallel to
the wheel and then we start in one
corner and wheeling it as far up as we
can until this corner here touching the
frame in the English wheel then we go
out with the wheel to here
or to here and then turn it around and
continue wheeling this part the next
step is to cross this we go the other
direction and do the same thing there
then we have a little convex on the
panel and what we do you can see those
rectangular that I put up on the panel
here so we start in one corner here and
wheel this and then we cross this first
one this way then we go over to the next
rectangular and start in one corner we
let the diamond shape over the center
one and then we cross this one and over
the Center one again and then we do the
same thing with the third rectangular
and then the whole sheet that means that
we cover the center section four times
more than the big sheet and that means
that we're raising it up more in the
same thing and that's what we want so
that's a good tip and remember that when
you're wheeling up something roof skin
like or door skin like this if your
shape of the panel if it's a trunk lid
you maybe have this little further up so
you can actually when you put those
on the sheet you can actually move this
high spot wherever you want where the
highest spot is and sometimes you maybe
don't want the roof skin so top on the
center so you maybe have only this
rectangular and this and then the whole
sheet and working on those so you don't
using the center one and we let up so it
depends little on the shape but the
principle is the same so this will help
you a lot with their wheeling up a big
big skin and if you have a if the your
English wheel frame is is stiff enough
it shouldn't take you longer than one
and a half hour to wheel a pad or skin
or a roof skin like this that's what we
do in the hands-on classes when the
student making a door skin like this for
33 34 Ford and they never stand in the
English wheel before so it can be done
pretty quick if you do it right if you
want more information you can go to WWE
as a metal shaping comm and see you next
time on the YouTube video